Welcome back. I hope
you're learning
a lot about how to communicate
with the Linux OS.
As we continue our journey into
utilizing the Linux
command line,
we'll focus on how to navigate
the Linux file system.
Now, I want you to
imagine a tree.
What did you notice
first about the tree?
Would you say the
trunk or the branches?
These might definitely
get your attention,
but what about its roots?
Everything about a tree
starts in the roots.
Something similar
happens when we
think about the
Linux file system.
Previously, we learned about
the components of the
Linux architecture.
The Filesystem
Hierarchy Standard,
or FHS, is
the component of the Linux
OS that organizes data.
This file system is
a very important part
of Linux because
everything we do in
Linux is considered
a file somewhere in
the system's directory.
The FHS is a hierarchical system,
and just like with a tree,
everything grows and
branches out from the root.
The root directory is
the highest-level
directory in Linux.
It's designated by a single slash.
Subdirectories branch off
from the root directory.
The subdirectories branch out
further and further away
from the root directory.
When describing the directory
structure in Linux, slashes
are used when tracing
back through these
branches to the root.
For example, here,
the first slash indicates
the root directory.
Then it branches out a level
into the home subdirectory.
Another slash indicates it
is branching out again.
This time it's to
the analyst subdirectory
that is located within home.
When working in security,
it is essential that
you learn to navigate
a file system to locate
and analyze logs,
such as log files.
You'll analyze
these log files for
application usage
and authentication.
With that background,
we're now ready to learn
the commands commonly used
for navigating the file system.
First, pwd prints the working
directory onto the screen.
When you use this command,
the output tells you which
directory you're currently in.
Next, ls displays the
names of files and
directories in the current
working directory. And finally,
cd navigates between
directories.
This is the command you'll use
when you want to
change directories.
Let's use these
commands in Bash.
First, we'll type the command
pwd to display the current
location and then press enter.
The output is the path to
the analyst directory where
we're currently working.
Next, let's input ls to display
the files and directories
within the analyst directory.
The output is the name of
four directories:
logs, oldreports,
projects, and reports, and one
file named updates.txt.
So let's say we now want to go into
the logs directory to check
for unauthorized access.
We'll input: cd logs
to change directories.
We won't get any output
on the screen from
the cd command,
but if we enter pwd again,
its output indicates that the
working directory is logs.
Logs is a subdirectory of
the analyst directory.
As a security analyst,
you'll also need
to know how to
read file content in Linux.
For example, you may need to read
files that contain
configuration settings to
identify potential
vulnerabilities. Or, you might look
at user access reports
while investigating
unauthorized access.
When reading file content,
there are some commands
that will help you.
First, cat displays the
content of a file.
This is useful,
but sometimes you
won't want the full
contents of a large file.
In these cases, you can
use the head command.
It displays just
the beginning of
a file, by default ten lines.
Let's try out these commands.
Imagine that we want to
read the contents of
access.txt, and we're
already in the working
directory where it's located.
First, we input the cat command
and then follow it with
the name of the file,
access.txt. And
Bash returns the full
contents of this file.
Let's compare that
to the head command.
When we input the head command
followed by our file name,
only the first 10 lines of
this file are displayed.
Wow, this section had lots
of action, and it's
just the beginning!
I'm glad you learned how
security analysts can use
essential commands to
navigate the system.
Next, we'll explore how
to manage the system.